Hello everybody and welcome back.
In this lecture we're going to focus on this main area the viewport.
The first thing I want to let you guys know about is the fact that you can have multiple ones of the.
So if we go up to window you will have noticed if you've been playing that there are a couple of viewport
so you can have you can have up to four.
This is really useful if you're working on multiple parts of any level and you want to keep the camera
in a special position.
So for instance if we wanted this main view ports to be focused where it is now and we don't want to
muck up where this one is we can open up a second view ports we can grab it and as we've experienced
before dockets to another area or we could just drag it out into its own window and make it full screen.
Brilliant.
Now that this is full screen we can really focus on just the viewport itself.
The first thing I want to show you is just about moving around.
So if we hold down the left mouse button and then move the mouse around you will notice that forward
and back moves forward and back and panning left and right works.
So you're looking to the left and right but it's not up and down with that mouse button.
It's forward and back and we go over to the right mouse button you'll notice that allows us to look
around but not move.
If we go ahead and press down the middle mouse button it allows us to move around the camera in a very
static way which is great for going up and down.
You can mirror this behavior as well by holding down both the left and right mouse buttons at the same
time.
Now personally I prefer the first person shooter method of moving around UnREAL which is where you hold
down the right mouse button to look around much like you would in any first person shooter and then
you can use the w key to go forward the esky to go back.
The a key to strafe to the left the D to the right and cue and E will allow you to go up and down.
E being up and cube being down now if you've got a particularly large level that you want to reverse
what you will find is if you press W and then use the scroll wheel you can slow down for a bit more
of a fine control or you can scroll up and then really whiz around your level and as you can see here
the level is quite big and we'll get to editing it in a bit as well but these are the basics of moving
around your level and it's going to become critical that you learn these skills as you start using the
Unreal.
Ed the final thing I want to show you and we can do that by closing down this view ports here is the
actual terminal itself how we're going to interact with that so we can actually press play here and
enter our world and we notice at this point we can click for mouse control so we will do that.
And if you want to change the behavior see you don't have to click on the viewport every time we can
go to where we've got the play button go slightly to the right of that to this dropdown and go to advanced
settings when we're in there.
We can see game gets mouse control if we put a tick in that box.
We won't have to click in this window every time to get started.
I'm going to leave mine as default at the moment and then we'll come back to that later.
And then we've got the terminal in front of us in order to access that you have to press the tab on
your keyboard and then you should be able to type press enter and it will generate a new line.
So that's a good check for everything is working.
It should be.
You can also press tab to leave the terminal and go back into the rest of your game world.
And now it's time for a quick challenge and your challenge is to simply get comfortable moving around
your level.
But what I'd also like you to do and there will be a few of you out there that have different input
methods.
I've got a simple mouse and keyboard.
But if you have any other movement techniques within the viewport to share them over in the discussions
go ahead post a video.
Now get comfortable moving around your level and I'll see you all in the next video.